docs/dxp/latest/en/installation-and-upgrades/installing-liferay/using-liferay-docker-images/docker-container-basics.md, before:

# Docker Container Basics

Docker Hub hosts [Liferay DXP](https://hub.docker.com/r/liferay/dxp) and [Liferay Portal Community Edition (CE)](https://hub.docker.com/r/liferay/portal) Docker images, bundled with Tomcat on Linux. The Liferay Docker Hub pages provide image details and tags for the different releases.

* [Liferay DXP Images](https://hub.docker.com/r/liferay/dxp)
* [Liferay Portal CE Images](https://hub.docker.com/r/liferay/portal)

Here are the fundamentals for using the containers:

* [Starting a Container for the First Time](#starting-a-container-for-the-first-time)
* [Viewing Log Files](#viewing-log-files)
* [Stopping a Container](#stopping-a-container)
* [Restarting a Container](#restarting-a-container)

These containers are standard Docker containers that can be started and stopped as such. The following examples use [Docker CLI (`docker`)](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/docker/), but you can use whatever Docker container tools you like.

## Starting a Container for the First Time

The containers listens on port `8080` and starts like all Docker containers.

1. [Run a container](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/run/) that maps a host port (e.g., `8080`) to the container's `8080` port.

    ```bash
    docker run -it -p 8080:8080 [$LIFERAY_LEARN_DXP_DOCKER_IMAGE$]
    ```

    The container runs and prints log messages, including this Tomcat startup completion message:

    ```
    INFO [main] org.apache.catalina.startup.Catalina.start Server startup in [xx,xxx] milliseconds
    ```

1. Open the Liferay UI in your browser at `https://localhost:8080`.

    ![Hre is Liferay's landing page.](./docker-container-basics/images/01.png)

Liferay is ready to use.

```note::
   ``docker container ls`` lists each running container, including its ID and name. ``docker container ls -a`` lists all of your containers, including ones that aren't running.
```

## Viewing Logs

Liferay log messages and log files are available to view live and to copy to your host.

### `docker logs` commands

The [`docker logs`](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/logs/) command prints container log messages.

| Command | Result |
| :------ | :----- |
| `docker logs [container]` | Outputs all of the current log messages |
| `docker logs -f [container]` | Streams new log messages, like `tail -f [file]` does |
| `docker logs -t [container]` | Appends a time stamp to each log message |

### `docker cp` command

You can use a [`docker cp`](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/cp/) command like the one below to copy a log file to your host machine.

```bash
docker cp [container]:/opt/liferay/logs/liferay.[timestamp].log .
```

## Stopping a Container

Here are two ways to stop the container.

| Method | Pros | Cons |
| :----- | :--- | :--- |
| `docker exec [container] /opt/liferay/tomcat/bin/shutdown.sh` | Allows Liferay, Tomcat, and other apps to free resources. The container entry point runs any [post-shutdown scripts](./container-lifecycle-and-api.md#post-shutdown-phase-api). | |
| `Ctrl-C` in the terminal session where you are running with the `-i` argument.<br><br>Note, this sends a [`SIGINT` or `SIGKILL` signal to the attached container](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/attach/#extended-description). | Fastest method to stop the container. | Liferay, Tomcat, and the container entry point stop immediately, without freeing resources. The entry point's [post-shutdown phase](./container-lifecycle-and-api.md#post-shutdown-phase-api) is skipped. Don't use this method in production environments |

## Restarting a Container

The containers can be restarted like all Docker containers.

```bash
docker start [container]
```

```warning::
   When a container is restarted, its entry point runs again (Please see `Container Lifecycle and API <./container-lifecycle-and-api.md#lifecycle>`_). Make sure any `scripts you're executing <./running-scripts-in-containers.md>`_ via the entry point can run again safely.
```

```tip::
   Run ``docker container ls -a`` to look up your container's name or ID.
```

Now you know the basics of starting, stopping, and monitoring a Liferay container.

## What's Next

If you want to know what the container entry point does and learn the container's API, see the [Container Lifecycle and API](./container-lifecycle-and-api.md). If you want to start using the containers, exercise one of the following use cases:

* [Configuring Containers](./configuring-containers.md)
* [Installing Apps and Other Artifacts to Containers](./installing-apps-and-other-artifacts-to-containers.md)
* [Patching DXP in Docker](./patching-dxp-in-docker.md)
* [Providing Files to the Container](./providing-files-to-the-container.md)
* [Upgrading to a New Docker Image](./upgrading-to-a-new-docker-image.md)

Commit message:

LRDOCS-9651 Set max memory to 8gb and link to Docker runtime options.

docs/dxp/latest/en/installation-and-upgrades/installing-liferay/using-liferay-docker-images/docker-container-basics.md, after:

# Docker Container Basics

Docker Hub hosts [Liferay DXP](https://hub.docker.com/r/liferay/dxp) and [Liferay Portal Community Edition (CE)](https://hub.docker.com/r/liferay/portal) Docker images, bundled with Tomcat on Linux. The Liferay Docker Hub pages provide image details and tags for the different releases.

* [Liferay DXP Images](https://hub.docker.com/r/liferay/dxp)
* [Liferay Portal CE Images](https://hub.docker.com/r/liferay/portal)

Here are the fundamentals for using the containers:

* [Starting a Container for the First Time](#starting-a-container-for-the-first-time)
* [Viewing Log Files](#viewing-log-files)
* [Stopping a Container](#stopping-a-container)
* [Restarting a Container](#restarting-a-container)

These containers are standard Docker containers that can be started and stopped as such. The following examples use [Docker CLI (`docker`)](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/docker/), but you can use whatever Docker container tools you like.

## Starting a Container for the First Time

The containers listens on port `8080` and starts like all Docker containers.

1. [Run a container](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/run/) that maps a host port (e.g., `8080`) to the container's `8080` port.

    ```bash
    docker run -it -m 8g -p 8080:8080 [$LIFERAY_LEARN_DXP_DOCKER_IMAGE$]
    ```

    The container runs and prints log messages, including this Tomcat startup completion message:

    ```
    INFO [main] org.apache.catalina.startup.Catalina.start Server startup in [xx,xxx] milliseconds
    ```

    ```{note}
    Memory, CPUs, and other Docker container resources are configurable. The `-m 8g` command arguments above set the container's memory limit to eight gigabytes. See the [Docker runtime options](https://docs.docker.com/config/containers/resource_constraints/) for details.
    ```

1. Open the Liferay UI in your browser at `https://localhost:8080`.

    ![Hre is Liferay's landing page.](./docker-container-basics/images/01.png)

Liferay is ready to use.

```note::
   ``docker container ls`` lists each running container, including its ID and name. ``docker container ls -a`` lists all of your containers, including ones that aren't running.
```

## Viewing Logs

Liferay log messages and log files are available to view live and to copy to your host.

### `docker logs` commands

The [`docker logs`](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/logs/) command prints container log messages.

| Command | Result |
| :------ | :----- |
| `docker logs [container]` | Outputs all of the current log messages |
| `docker logs -f [container]` | Streams new log messages, like `tail -f [file]` does |
| `docker logs -t [container]` | Appends a time stamp to each log message |

### `docker cp` command

You can use a [`docker cp`](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/cp/) command like the one below to copy a log file to your host machine.

```bash
docker cp [container]:/opt/liferay/logs/liferay.[timestamp].log .
```

## Stopping a Container

Here are two ways to stop the container.

| Method | Pros | Cons |
| :----- | :--- | :--- |
| `docker exec [container] /opt/liferay/tomcat/bin/shutdown.sh` | Allows Liferay, Tomcat, and other apps to free resources. The container entry point runs any [post-shutdown scripts](./container-lifecycle-and-api.md#post-shutdown-phase-api). | |
| `Ctrl-C` in the terminal session where you are running with the `-i` argument.<br><br>Note, this sends a [`SIGINT` or `SIGKILL` signal to the attached container](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/attach/#extended-description). | Fastest method to stop the container. | Liferay, Tomcat, and the container entry point stop immediately, without freeing resources. The entry point's [post-shutdown phase](./container-lifecycle-and-api.md#post-shutdown-phase-api) is skipped. Don't use this method in production environments |

## Restarting a Container

The containers can be restarted like all Docker containers.

```bash
docker start [container]
```

```warning::
   When a container is restarted, its entry point runs again (Please see `Container Lifecycle and API <./container-lifecycle-and-api.md#lifecycle>`_). Make sure any `scripts you're executing <./running-scripts-in-containers.md>`_ via the entry point can run again safely.
```

```tip::
   Run ``docker container ls -a`` to look up your container's name or ID.
```

Now you know the basics of starting, stopping, and monitoring a Liferay container.

## What's Next

If you want to know what the container entry point does and learn the container's API, see the [Container Lifecycle and API](./container-lifecycle-and-api.md). If you want to start using the containers, exercise one of the following use cases:

* [Configuring Containers](./configuring-containers.md)
* [Installing Apps and Other Artifacts to Containers](./installing-apps-and-other-artifacts-to-containers.md)
* [Patching DXP in Docker](./patching-dxp-in-docker.md)
* [Providing Files to the Container](./providing-files-to-the-container.md)
* [Upgrading to a New Docker Image](./upgrading-to-a-new-docker-image.md)
